<h1 align="center">Pros and Cons of Cloud Technology</h1>
 
<ins>**Advantage and disadvantages of Cloud Computing Technology**</ins>

+ **No cost on infrastructure**: We don’t need to invest in hardware or any infrastructure. In general, every organization has to spend a lot on their IT infrastructure to set up and hire a specialized team.But if we  move to cloud computing services, then we don’t need to invest in these. We simply go to a cloud services provider and buy a cloud service. <br />
+ **Minimum management and cost**: When we opt for the cloud, the management of its infrastructure is the sole responsibility of the cloud provider and not of the user. <br />
+ Whenever there is a purchase or up-gradation of hardware, a lot of time is wasted looking for best vendors, inviting quotations, negotiating rates, taking approvals, generating POs and waiting for delivery and then in setting up the infrastructure.This whole process includes lots of administrative/managerial tasks that waste a lot of time. <br />
+ With cloud services, we just need to compare the best cloud service providers and their plans and buy from the one that matches our requirements. And this whole process doesn’t take much time and saves us a lot of efforts. Our system maintenance tasks are also eliminated in the cloud. <br />
+ Accessibility and pay per use: Cloud resources are easily accessible from around the globe – anytime, anywhere and from any device and we have complete access to our resources. <br />
+ Data control: Another primary advantage of the cloud is that it centralizes all the data from multiple projects and branch offices to a single location. we  gain complete control over the data without visiting individual places for checking the information. <br />
+ Data backup & recovery:  we can automatically backup all the data to the cloud on a regular basis. This helps us to recover any data in case of accidental deletion, loss because of natural calamity or if the hard drive crashes. <br />
+ Huge cloud storage: Most cloud services provide us a free, secure and huge storage space to store all our valuable information. <br />
+ Automatic software updates: Updating a system every now and then can be a frustrating task for enterprises. The IT department needs to update the system for every individual which not only wastes time but affects productivity.But if we are using cloud-based applications, they will get automatically updated, without any involvement from the users.

<ins>**Disadvantages of cloud computing Technology**</ins>

+ **Requires good speed internet with good bandwidth**: To access our cloud services, we need to have a good internet connection always with good bandwidth to upload or download files to/from the cloud <br />
+ Downtime: Since the cloud requires high internet speed and good bandwidth, there is always a possibility of service outage, which can result in business downtime. Today, no business can afford revenue or business loss due to downtime or slow down from an interruption in critical business processes. <br />
+ Limited control of infrastructure: Since we are not the owner of the infrastructure of the cloud, hence we don’t have any control or have limited access to the cloud infra. <br />
+ **Restricted or limited flexibility**: The cloud provides a huge list of services, but consuming them comes with a lot of restrictions and limited flexibility for our applications or developments. <br />
+ Ongoing costs: Although we save our cost of spending on whole infrastructure and its management, on the cloud, we need to keep paying for services as long as we use them. But in traditional methods, we only need to invest once. <br />
+ Security: Security of data is a big concern for everyone. Since the public cloud utilizes the internet, our data may become vulnerable. <br />
+ In the case of a public cloud,  it depends on the cloud provider to take care of our data. So, before opting for cloud services, it is required that we find a provider who follows maximum compliance policies for data security.For complete security of data on the cloud, one needs to consider a somewhat costlier private cloud option or the hybrid cloud option, where generic data can be on the public cloud and business-critical data is kept on the private cloud.
+ Vendor Lock-in: Although the cloud service providers assure us  that they will allow us to switch or migrate to any other service provider whenever we want, it is a very difficult process.we will find it complex to migrate all the cloud services from one service provider to another. During migration, we might end up facing compatibility, interoperability and support issues. To avoid these issues, many customers choose not to change the vendor. <br />
+ Technical issues: Even if we are a tech whiz, the technical issues can occur, and everything can’t be resolved in-house. To avoid interruptions, we will need to contact our service provider for support. However, not every vendor provides 24/7 support to their clients. <br />